README.md, before:

# Todo App (SPA)

This repo is for the frontend of a web app with initial dummy data pulled from [here](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos). Apart from the fundamental CRUD features, the app will display a toast for the user actions, filter todo list based on userId, task completion and page number. The app is integrated with a unit test using Jest as well.

## Dependencies

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [DaisyUI](https://daisyui.com/)
- [React Icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mervin-njy/todo-app-react-ts.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd todo-app
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or for reference ---------------------------------------------------
npx create-vite todo-app --template react-ts        # 1. React with TypeScript using Vite
cd todo-app                                         # 2. change to project directory for other installations
npm install                                         # 3. install Node.js dependencies
npm i -D tailwindcss@latest postcss autoprefixer    # 4. Tailwind CSS with PostCSS and Autoprefixer (for Vite)
npx tailwindcss init -p                             # 5. Create tailwind.config.js file
npm i -D prettier prettier-plugin-tailwindcss       # 6. Automatic class sorting with Prettier formatter
npm i -D daisyui@latest                             # 7. DaisyUI (UI utilities for Tailwind CSS)
npm i react-icons                                   # 8. React Icons

# for testing React components with TypeScript
npm i -D @types/jest jest @testing-library/react @testing-library/jest-dom # 8. Jest
```

### Notes

1. For usage of Tailwind CSS with Vite, please refer to the [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/vite) if any issues arise during the installation.
2. For usage of prettier formatting of Tailwind CSS, ensure that you add a [Prettier config](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss) file in the main directory, like .prettierrc.

## Usage

1. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

2. Open your browser and visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the application.

## App Layout and Components

![layout of SPA](./diagrams/layout.svg)
![Component diagram to illustrate handling of states and flow of props](./diagrams/component-diagram.svg)

## Project Structure

- `src/` - Contains the source code of the application.
  - `components/` - React components.
  - `pages/` - Application routes/pages.
  - `styles/` - Global styles and Tailwind CSS configuration.
  - `utils/` - Utility functions.
- `tests/` - Contains test files for Jest.

Commit message:

added components to be used + set up useEffect hook to fetch data from api successfully.
- Jest has been configured but not working properly. It will not be used for now.

README.md, after:

# Todo App (SPA)

This repo is for the frontend of a web app with initial dummy data pulled from [here](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos). Apart from the fundamental CRUD features, the app will display a toast for the user actions, filter todo list based on userId, task completion and page number. The app will be integrated with unit testing using Jest in the future.

## Dependencies

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [DaisyUI](https://daisyui.com/)
- [React Icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), which is currently not properly set up. Please do not run tests yet.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mervin-njy/todo-app-react-ts.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd todo-app
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or for reference ---------------------------------------------------
npx create-vite todo-app --template react-ts        # 1. React with TypeScript using Vite
cd todo-app                                         # 2. change to project directory for other installations
npm install                                         # 3. install Node.js dependencies
npm i -D tailwindcss@latest postcss autoprefixer    # 4. Tailwind CSS with PostCSS and Autoprefixer (for Vite)
npx tailwindcss init -p                             # 5. Create tailwind.config.js file
npm i -D prettier prettier-plugin-tailwindcss       # 6. Automatic class sorting with Prettier formatter
npm i -D daisyui@latest                             # 7. DaisyUI (UI utilities for Tailwind CSS)
npm i react-icons                                   # 8. React Icons

# for testing React components with TypeScript - To be continued.
npm i -D @types/jest jest @testing-library/react @testing-library/jest-dom
npm i --save-dev ts-jest jest-fetch-mock
```

### Notes

1. For usage of Tailwind CSS with Vite, please refer to the [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/vite) if any issues arise during the installation.
2. For usage of prettier formatting of Tailwind CSS, ensure that you add a [Prettier config](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss) file in the main directory, like .prettierrc.

## Usage

1. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

2. Open your browser and visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000), or whichever port is available to you, for viewing of the application.

## App Layout and Components

![layout of SPA](./diagrams/layout.svg)
![Component diagram to illustrate handling of states and flow of props](./diagrams/component-diagram.svg)

## Project Structure

- `src/` - Contains the source code of the application.
  - `components/` - React components.
  - `pages/` - Application routes/pages.
  - `styles/` - Global styles and Tailwind CSS configuration.
- `tests/` - Contains test files for Jest.
